# Adversarial Debiasing Network Security
Research Project Adversarial Debiasing of Machine Learning Models for Enhanced Network Security against DDoS Attacks under Symbiosis Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence

Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks are a significant threat to network security, disturbing services by overwhelming systems with malicious traffic. Traditional firewalls equipped to detect such malicious attempts fall short of emerging attack trends enhanced using Generative AI. This study aims to enhance the detection of DDoS attacks using a Random Forest classifier trained using synthetic data produced by a GAN architecture model. The synthetic data produced by the generator showcases 80.3% similarity to real network traffic, and machine learning approaches enhance the robustness of the model. To further improve classification, adversarial debiasing techniques are applied where we focus on the sensitive attributes, namely the number of forward and backward packets and the total length of these forward and backward packets, reducing model biases and enabling better differentiation between normal and malicious traffic. Retraining ML models with a mix of synthetic and real data improved DDoS detection accuracy. Models on the benchmark datasets provided an extremely high accuracy of 99.98%, while inferencing the re-trained model on an unseen synthetic dataset had a boost of +22.60% as compared to traditional benchmark models. This provided a baseline to build an adaptable detection framework that overcomes the limitations of adversarial attacks, enabling it to address evolving cyber threats. 

<quote>*Walambe, R., Sukumar, A., Singh, I., Mohane, D., Mukherjee, A., Dutta, A., & Kotecha, K. (n.d.). Adversarial debiasing of machine learning models for enhanced network security against DDoS attacks. Symbiosis Institute of Technology, Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune, India. Symbiosis Centre for Applied Artificial Intelligence (SCAAI), Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune, India.*</quote>
